Oh, it's time to go help.
Harris, Senator Carl month, temporary chairman,
wrapping for attention and the hearing will be underway
and after the month.
There's one of the other principal's
members, Joseph McCartney, who's coming.
May you come to order.
I'll go ahead.
Sheriff would like to remind our guests
to say are here under the rule established
by the committee at the very beginning.
While we're happy to have guests come to the committee,
whom they come here under the terms
of the resolution providing that the officers
and the plain clothesmen in the audience
are likely removed from the room immediately.
Anybody making any audible manifestations
of approval or disapproval during the question of these
here.
So without further instructions from the chair,
both the audience and the officers
know their duties in this connection.
The chair was highly gratified yesterday
at the progress that was made and that the complete
absence of interruptions.
He has the unpleasant duties this morning
and sad duty of violating his own suggestion
that there be no preliminary faith.
But due to the attaching of our beloved colleague,
Senator Hoey, the chair wants to read and propose
this resolution since Senator Hoey was at one time
chairman of the committee and for many years,
he's a member of the school committee.
Whereas the late senator from North Carolina,
the honorable Clyde Arhoey,
there is a distinction as a member of this committee
for a period of more than six years.
And whereas during the entire period of his service
on this committee, he participated actively
in the activities and deliberations of the committee
and profoundly impressed his colleagues
by the soundness of his judgment.
His judicial temperament is never
killing criticism.
His non-partisan approach to the resolutions
of issues before the committee
and his utmost consideration for the views of his colleagues.
Whereas for almost four years,
he served as the chairman of the firmness
investigating subcommittee of the senator
and of this committee.
And before that, difficult assignment
in such a manner to impress the public by the thoroughness
for a mind-denist and impartiality
of the investigations conducted by the subcommittee.
And in such a manner as to bring about many desirable changes
in the operations of the government,
now therefore be it resolved.
That the committee and government operations
has heard this profound sorrow and deep regrets
of the death of honorable Clyde Arhoey,
late to senior senator from the state of North Carolina
and directs its clerks to transmit a copy
of this resolution to the family of the disease.
Those are the very most.
Senator McDonnell, Senator McDonnell.
I move the adoption of the resolution
that Chair has yet to add.
I would further move Mr. Chairman
that as the further Mark of Apple's
Foundlance back to our deceased colleagues
at 10 minutes of 12 o'clock,
this committee reached that in depth
and stood this bad hour.
Now the defendant makes a second
and that's the second and that's the idea
and understands the question that we have to go to the floor,
the senate where there will be memorial services
and that we can reconvene again at 2.5 to no.
Are those in favor of the resolution will say aye?
Aye.
It is the question anonymously adopted.
Yesterday we had Mr. Jenkins
conducting the direct examination of Mr. Adams
throughout the day.
Mr. Jenkins decided that he had already now
to proceed with the cross examination of Mr. Adams.
Mr. Dickens.
Mr. Chairman.
Mr. Sinclair.
Mr. Walsh has asked me to inform you
that he has a slight stomach upset support.
And as a result, he was referred away
to remain away from these hearings
at least through the morning.
But he has asked me to carry on in this absence
in the request of the committee to continue the hearings.
I'm sure he hasn't able to stand it
and you, Mr. Sinclair, am we talking to you?
I'm in no position to vouch for that,
but I would like to introduce to you
the Assistant Department of Council, Mr. Charles Pasons,
who will be my assistant to Mr. Walsh returns.
Hasn't he, a.k.s.A.I.S.?
Yes, sir.
Yes.
All right.
Mr. Dickens.
Come on.
The Adam's free.
Yes, sir.
He.
You were examined directly with respect
to the charges made by you and Mr. Stevens
against Senator McCarthy.
And is he, you understand that, if not?
Yes, sir.
I do.
Mr. Adam, it is not a pleasant pass for me.
The committee was on the witness stand,
and examined directly as I undertook to do yesterday
as fairly as possible.
But it is necessary for this committee
when it's just to the point of making its decision
to properly evaluate your testimony.
And it is my conception and the conception of the committee
that it can better do that in the life of a cross-examination.
I say that to the benefit of those who do not understand my position,
to the benefit of those who no doubt will spend many telegrams
of a critical nature.
No doubt.
What's the union and my friends who are stockholders
in that organization will not appreciate that statement?
But it is, as I say, an unpleasant pass.
Mr. Adams.
The Senator and his staff have made
what this committee regards as serious charges against you
and Mr. Stevens.
I'm sure you're well aware what those charges are.
In order to focus those charges to pinpoint them,
they are as I can see, as to the fact one.
As you and Mr. Stevens sought to discredit
this investigating committee of which Senator McCarthy is the chairman,
and sought to minimize its importance
and particularly minimize the importance of its work in Port Mama.
Two, that you undertook you and Mr. Stevens
to bring about a discontinuous of their investigation of Port Mama.
Number three, that you thought in every way possible
to prevent their investigating your security lawyer,
the lawyer of the Port.
In other words, that you tried to prevent their investigation
of any sense your investigator.
I think it's top of the weir in agreement
with respect to those issues, aren't we?
There are some things that are...
You came to the Army on the first day of October 1953.
That's correct.
Is it about Mr. Adams?
Yes, sir.
And you were specifically assigned the duties of the liaison officer
between the Army and the McCarthy Committee,
were you not?
Yes, sir.
At that time there was a liaison officer
between the Army and the Committee.
Is that him?
Was there not...
Not specifically, sir.
Well, not specifically, but there was an officer,
or officers, those duties in fact.
That is correct.
Is it not, Mr. Adams?
Not exactly, sir.
Well, now I'm not exactly, but generally,
is there not that true, Mr. Adams?
I think we got along beautifully yesterday.
We got direct answers, generally,
and there were no interruptions.
And is there not, if the fact that at the time you came,
there was already a contact officer in existence.
An intermediary between the Army and the Senator McCarthy
and his staff.
The very first question is not exactly correct.
The IMA can elaboration, which will clarify the situation.
Certainly, me.
The officer, the Department of Council,
had been established about three years ago
for the specific purpose, among other things,
of representing the Secretary of the Army,
and assisting the Secretary of the Army
and officials of the Army,
in the preparation of matters of interest
to congressional committees and congressional investigations.
There also exists in the Army
and officers legislative liaison.
The office of legislative liaison
has a primary function, the handling of specific
and individual requests from members of Congress,
the arranging of witness groups
and the many routine duties,
which routine functions,
which come to the Army through
as a result of inquiry from members of Congress.
There was an officer, General Finn,
to whom previous reference has been made,
who, as an official of the office of legislative liaison,
did much work for the office of legislative liaison.
This work and the work of the Office of Department of Councilor
did not overlap.
There was collateral work.
The Department of Councilor's Office did substantive work
in the preparation and study of cases.
We legislated the liaison office,
of which General Finn was applied.
It does much more,
as many more people,
and does much work on an individual basis
from members of Congress,
and does not get into the presence
of investigations in the manner
that the Office of Department of Councilor does.
That is the difference.
There was an officer,
if what General Finn,
his duties were different from those
which the Department of Councilor had before I came
and had after I arrived.
But you were specifically assigned the host task,
as we understand it.
You were assigned the task,
as I understand it,
as in the affirmative.
You knew Mr. Adams,
when you came to the Army,
you were appointed the first,
that Senator McCarthy and his staff,
who were investigating,
the alleged infiltration
of the first is the Fourth Monument,
did you not?
That's right.
You knew that after you were inducted into office.
Yes, sir.
That is one of the first things
the Secretary told you.
Yes, sir.
I think it's the Secretary's talk to you
before you were actually employed,
and before you were inducted into office,
did he not?
Yes, sir.
For some several days,
fired off to the first.
Yes, sir.
I think the first time that I talked to the Secretary prior
to my appointment,
which is about ten days,
preceded my appointment,
or two weeks.
I'm hearing the course of that ten days
or two weeks that you have.
More than one of our several conferences
with the Secretary looking to your employment.
I had one conference with Mr. Steven,
which was in the form of an interview,
in which he did not specify anything about the duties.
A week or two we laughed,
so I'm not sure exactly.
And I had another conference with him,
in which he indicated that I would be appointed.
I told him that for two or three days,
previous to my appointment,
I was going to go down to the office
of the Department of Counselor,
and all of the work which was being done,
and more or less to watch the other people who worked.
I did do that.
I don't recall anything more than a
for puncture and conversation with Mr. Steven.
During that period prior to my appointment,
with reference to the committee investigation.
Well, you got a cleaning with him,
and you had conferences with the impire
to your formal employment, of course.
That is correct.
I did have one contact with the committee
prior to October 1st.
The committee was investigating...
You mean with the McCarthy Committee?
Yes, your welcome.
Well, I thought I did.
My associate told me I was wrong.
I thought that the investigation of the Korean atrocities
had preceded today or so.
My appointment was about apparently it did not.
I don't think about your contacts with the secretary.
And in those contacts prior to your employment,
no doubt your duties were outlined.
And you were told,
definitely what was expected of you.
The character of work for which he sought your employment.
Is that correct, Mr. Adam?
Well, I don't think he told me much about it
because I think he assumed that I knew.
I have been in the synagogue for four years,
and I knew my predecessor and I knew his predecessor,
and I knew generally the function of that office.
Well, Mr. Adam's did or not, he told you,
but prior to your formal employment
about his problem with the senator?
No, Mr. Adam.
Not to my right, please.
Not to your recollection?
No, sir.
You did not know that you were being hired as a sort of a diplomat,
as a sort of a peacemaker, as a sort of a go-between.
I didn't know it then, and I don't know it now.
You don't know that now.
It's not the primary reason for my appointment.
Well, all right.
Did you know that it was one of the second-day reasons for your employment?
I knew that it was one of the many functions of the office.
And did you know that before you were formally employed and inducted in the office?
I don't believe that I was fully aware
before I became the department counsellor,
as to the extent that the office was involved with congressional investigation.
He just hired you because of your general policy commissions as an outstanding lawyer.
That's correct.
And he stated that...
Maybe I shouldn't say that is correct.
I don't know where he hired me as an outstanding lawyer.
He told me that he was particularly pleased with the fact that I was a veteran of the Army,
and that he was pleased with the fact that I was a middle-western,
and that he was pleased with the fact that I had some knowledge of the working city congress,
and he was pleased with the fact that I knew the organization of the Department of Defense,
and that I had worked on the Defense Department reorganization.
All of the experiences I had over the past four or five years,
knelt it together and happened to make in me as sort of an individual he happened to be looking for.
Very well now, I see your formal requirements.
You then became fully acquainted with the secretary's problem,
as it was a problem with Senator McCarthy and his staff.
That's correct, didn't you?
Yes, sir, but the secretary never indicated to me that it was a problem.
Very well.
Mr. Adam, did the secretary indicate to you our state to you,
definitely that it was an embarrassing situation for him?
He did not.
He is the secretary of the Army,
and McCarthy investigating,
then the McCarthy and his staff investigating the verses in the Army.
You say he did not indicate that it was embarrassing doing,
did it not work?
Did he indicate to you at that time,
or ever, that he wanted those hearings and investigations of the Senator and his staff,
discontinued?
Did he say, ever?
No, at that time,
so struck me after your employment.
Did he say you that there was a new and different directive
dated April 27th,
re-evaluating the procedures to be taken in the investigation of the birthdays?
No, sir, he did not.
Did you learn that to be a fact early in the course of your employment?
I did, sir.
You did.
I knew that before I had come to work there.
Very well.
But sir, I didn't think quite well acquainted with it.
I said, Joe,
did you at the time of your employment or shortly as I have to know or learn?
Or were you told by the secretary,
that even though that directly was dated April 27th,
nothing had been done about it by the secretary until the early part of September.
No, sir.
Did you later learn that to be a fact?
Have you read the secretary's statement, 25th-state statement?
Yes, sir.
Have you think you do not know it to be a fact?
No, he did not.
Sir, Adam,
I will ask you,
if you did not hand me a 40-page document prepared under your direction,
for my use in the examination of you as a witness in this conference.
It was handed to you by my counsel, yes, sir.
And was it prepared by you?
Yes, sir.
Under your direction, you know it's content.
May I read just one paragraph now, sir?
Adam, you say that you did not know it was a fact.
Now, does nothing have been done under this new directive,
under the new administration of April 27th,
until the early part of September,
and I now read that you may follow me,
and it's on page one of your statements, right paragraph.
In September prior to my appointment,
the Army had already begun to review all the documents
that were issued by the Army,
and the Army had already begun to review all the whole
of the security cases under the new criteria,
the Spanish Prophecy and Eisenhower's Executive Order,
April 27th, 1953.
This included a review of all personnel reports,
my mouth and previously has been considered for removal,
but retained and acquired directives.
I have been considered for a year,
six degrees employees have been suspended from the farm.
And so I have seen Mr. Adam,
there isn't a fact that nothing was done
under that directive of April 27th until September, 1953.
I think there is not correct any correction.
I think the fact that that is not so.
Well, when was anything done under that directive of April 27th?
Well now, when is the Secretary Axon,
is there a new accident?
I know you were not there a lot over first.
I was not there until October 1st, very shortly after I arrived.
There was admitted to the Secretary a series of reviews.
In existing Army regulations,
these reviews had been being prepared by the officers
which handled the administration of the loyalty program,
separate officers from mine.
And I understood that those reviews had been being worked on
during many months.
I don't know how long.
The directive of April 27th was a revision with the Nazi status.
It was the adivision and President's Executive Order.
When was any work our investigation conducted
in the Army and particularly the Fort Monmouth,
under the directive of April 27th?
When was the first...
When was the initial work done by the Secretary?
Under that directive of April 27th?
Well, shall you say by the Secretary?
Well, I, the Secretary, am not by...
that he embraces you now and all the important under the Secretary.
The Secretary is ahead of the Army.
He is needed, Secretary.
All right.
I don't mean by him personally.
I mean by his fact.
Well, I think the Secretary justified during one of the latter days
of his examination last the Army had requested
the Federal Bureau of Investigation to make a re-examination
of loyalty matters and individuals that Fort Monmouth
in the summer of 1953 shortly after the presidency's
Executive Order.
There were three different agencies that the Army
which had responsibilities in the field of defense.
Let's talk about yours, Mr. Adams.
And we get along better.
The one in the Army.
You don't care for this hearing about the Navy or their...
I said three different agencies in the Army.
In the Army, very well.
Very well.
And one of them was the intelligence section
of headquarters first Army in New York.
Another was the intelligence section at Fort Monmouth.
The third was the security division of G2 in the Army
and had Washington.
And I am not able to tell you the precise date
when those agencies began to re-examine
the cases of individuals.
I do know that G2 is an FBI report
and other investigative reports constantly were coming in
to these intelligence agencies.
And that's re-evaluation and study were constantly going on.
Those facts were made available to me and were made clear to me
shortly after I came to work for the Army.
But the FBI agency is entirely separate
that is the enemy of the Army's agency.
That's right.
And I ask you, Mr. Adams, when was the first suspension
made of Fort Monmouth under the...
under Secretary Steven Dredin.
The first one was on 19 August.
On 19 July of one person.
One person?
Yes.
Do you know how many have been suspended when you came to all of them?
I think six additional people were suspended
in the last weekend of September.
Did you know when Senator McCarthy and his staff
began their investigations about the first use of queer rifts
at Fort Monmouth?
I have no knowledge of the committee's investigation
for any time preceding October 1st or 2nd.
Did you later learn that he actually had hearings in August?
I did not learn that he had hearings on Fort Monmouth in August.
But hearings with respect to the verses in the Army in August.
He had hearings in New York on the verses
who were in the employ of the Fort Monmouth before.
I think in most instances,
and one individual who was a guard at a signal-cord depot
in New York in Separat.
I remember.
Again, I state I have not read those transcripts.
I was not present at the hearing.
Mr. Adams, how many suspensions were there?
Susensions were as fexious as they were
as though of Senator McCarthy's words.
At Fort Monmouth.
Were there not 35?
There have been a total.
There have been a total of 35 individuals
who were suspended at Fort Monmouth.
Did some of whom have been reinstated?
How many have been reinstated with that?
Well, I think it's 12.
I think it has a number of suspensions.
And 20 now in effect is 21.
I think there were two resignations.
Well, is that as I think we all agree?
There are Fort Monmouth's words,
a tremendously important Army installation.
Do we not?
Yes, sir.
At which is located it probably the heart of the signal core of the Army?
Is that correct?
It is an important technical installation.
I am not qualified to say whether it is the heart of the signal core.
And would you say that in view of its importance
as the seat to the heart of the Vade defenses set up for the Army against?
And it taxed the enemy with a hydrogen or atomic bomb
that it was tremendously important to discover
and sustain the core security we expect.
It is important, sir.
It always was important and it always will be important.
And so you regard it your work's of the McCarthy Committee
as a tremendous important support modelist.
Did you not?
I always considered the work of the McCarthy.
That was what worked.
Work's primarily...
Did you see how it was?
I didn't told the National Council of the Court that I had this account for.
It didn't have to be finished.
Sometimes it's difficult to tell, but it can't be finished tonight.
I will interrupt the Council if I don't think that.
Very good.
That work was primarily the duty of the Army, too, was the Mountain of the Saddam.
I'm afraid you don't have to restate it.
The introduction has what work is it to refer to?
The work of discovering and suspending these
foolish and subversive support modelists.
Yes, sir. Security is a continuing command responsibility.
Well, I must add, if the Secretary tells you that he first learned of that
when he was in Montana,
on Labor Day, that he first learned about support modelists,
that he first learned the Senator McCarthy had under investigation
three bad risks to support Mama's.
And that he learned of an on Labor Day, September 53.
No, sir. I think that the individuals under investigation by Senator McCarthy
were not support modelists.
What were they in the Army? They were in the Army.
They were like a say-tell you that.
Yes, sir.
Did he tell you that was embarrassing to him?
No, sir.
Never did he finally take such a place.
Never did he tell you that he was used to use all of your persuasive
abilities and your power and bring about a cessation or suspension.
I'll send them a slice of work at Fort Monmouth.
Never at any time, though, you might.
If you did that, Mr. Adams, if you do it on your own in the city,
I didn't do it.
You didn't do it.
You never at any time.
Stop either of this continuous.
Or even a height of this in that work, the suspension.
I thought you saying you got right, Mr. Adams.
That's right.
I mean, madam, the heavy is fading in your 40-page statement.
That file Senator McCarthy's been in office this work.
And did uncover these bad news, bring about this suspension?
Never the least, you would have done it.
And by you, I mean you and Mr. Steven.
If you've been given more time to do it, is that correct?
I didn't say anything in the statement about being given more time.
Let me reach your frontiers statement on page 5.
Some of these suspension took place more quickly than might have been the case otherwise.
You mean more quickly because of what the Senator from Wisconsin and his father did?
I do, sir.
What's probably would have taken a few months under ordinary procedures was done in a few weeks.
You mean that what the Army would have required a few months to do?
Senator McCarthy and his A's did in a few weeks?
No, I can just read it on a few more times to describe.
Well, you can answer that question. I'm going to read all.
I'm leading your words now.
You're talking about here about what the McCarthy Committee did at Fort Monmouth.
And you say here that the suspension took place more quickly than they would have otherwise.
That's correct.
And the property in the district.
And the property would have taken a few months under ordinary procedures was done in a few weeks.
You mean that I take it with that?
That these suspension would have required a few months' time of the Army,
whereas Senator McCarthy, the told him it's a car and other members of the staff did it in a few weeks.
Is that what you mean?
No, sir, I don't.
All right, what do you think?
The state said that these things would have occurred.
I know that the state of order required an examination of all the security cases
and the sure that these actions ultimately would have occurred.
All right.
The quick action at Fort Monmouth was because the Secretary directed his personal attention
and his personal staff had one particular area.
This he did because of the headlines and the bad effects they were having on any morale.
All right.
Same question.
So it's not only for much Senator McCarthy,
but because the Secretary then directed his energies in that direction.
That's correct.
Yes, sir.
And you say that it would have occurred?
Yes, that you would ultimately have brought about the same results as the Secretary and his staff
if you had been given more time to do it.
That's correct, sir.
In other words, I didn't use the word if we had been given more time.
But you say the general idea is correct.
That is correct.
Ultimately, the same thing would have been accomplished as it is being accomplished at other installation.
In other words, you were using the water with which to put out the fire.
Whereas the Senator was turning on the holes or calling out the barriers.
Is that right?
Well, all right.
Just let your silence be your answer if you can.
I don't quite understand.
Mr. Adams, in all of your press releases,
this is a recall.
You think of espionage at Fort Monmouth, do you not?
Yes.
What's the Secretary's duty?
Your...
You say in all of our questions.
Well, we have said that to November 13th, November 60th, or approximately those things.
You speak of espionage.
The Secretary is press conference of November 30th.
I am, and his press conference.
You have the emergency squad on November 7th.
Yes, sir.
You speak of espionage at Fort Monmouth, do you not?
The Secretary spoke of permanent.
And nowhere in those releases do you speak of subversive security issues.
No, sir.
Well, Mr. Secretary, I'm Mr. Adams.
What is it, the Secretary?
I did burriott.
I'll put it this way.
Isn't it the Secretary's burriott?
An embryonic spy.
Thank you.